The Joe Rogan experience.
The eighties and the fifties were the worst time for movies ever,
cuz it was just this kind of politically correct time.
Now in the fifties it was different. Cause that was just was society.
Was that in the eighties it was self, it was, uh,
self censorship was going on. What started that? Well, it was just the, the,
the rise of political correctness after the seventies where everything was just
go as far as you can, then all of a sudden, uh, everything got watered down.
Uh,
in the seventies you had movies where it's like characters weren't necessarily
the hero. They were up,
but they were interesting characters and you sit down and you followed them,
whether it be Travis Bickle or Charlie rain and rolling thunder or Joe,
Peter Boyle's character and Joe, they weren't the heroes,
but you could even have heroes and they could die.
Meaninglessly at the end that that was actually considered a, a commercial, uh,
a commercial ending back in the seventies, cuz it just shows how, uh,
you can't win. Everything's. You just can't win. It's just the way it is.
You go and you fight in Vietnam,
you survive Vietnam and you get shot in a liquor store during a holdup. Um,
everything was cynical then all of a sudden in the eighties,
all that was washed away.
And the most important thing about a character was that they were likable and
that was the, every character had to be likable.
And the audience had to like everybody and even a movie that pushed the envelope
and tried to do Chancey things. Well,
it could do it for about an hour <laugh> then the last 20 minutes would be them
literally going back on everything they did the first hour apologizing it and
you know, making everything fine.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and just I'll give you good example of that. Okay.
It's just like, okay.
The critics always really preferred bill Murray movies
to Chevy chase movies. However,
it does seem as if the point of all the bill Murray movies is that he's this
kind of hip cool curmudgeon smartass guy who
in the last 20 minutes gets a transformation and
becomes this nice guy. Yeah. And we're and,
and almost apologizes for who he was the entire movie,
you know, the whole rest of the movie before, uh, before that happened,
the Groundhog day stripes, stripes, Groundhog days,
SCR mm-hmm <affirmative> you know the whole thing. I mean, when like,
like for instance stripes, how does he go from where Warren OS kick his kicks,
his deservedly kicks his.
He deserves to get belly punched by Warren OS in that movie.
How does he go from being this incon classic? I don't give a about anything.
I get beat up by Warren OS to now he's ING the troops <laugh> yeah.
And now he's getting their he's, you know,
he is getting their army on during the, the parade.
And now he's like leading a secret mission and same thing with like, with,
with like with Groundhog day. I mean,
does anybody really think a less sarcastic bill?
Bill Murray is a better bill Murray. I mean,
maybe it's better for Andy McDowell, but not for us as the, as the viewer yet,
yet
Chevy chase movies don't play that.
Chevy chase is the same super silliest at the end of the movie
that he is at the beginning. He never changes in his stuff.
He's always like a bit of a Dick and is always completely sarcastic. I mean,
unless they cast him playing a dope, like he is in the, the net, uh,
the vacation movies. But when he is playing like a Chevy character, he's uh,
you know, he never apologizes for who he is,
stays that way throughout the whole film. Even if there is a slight change,
that's not the whole point of the movie. Yeah.
Is like turning him into a nice cuddly guy. Have you ever worked with him? Nah,
I, I would. I'd love to.
I'm a gigantic fan of his early work, like the fledge stuff.
Interesting and Saturday live. And so.
Muchs yeah. Oh, the whole first season is Saturday.
I like pretty much all those early movies except for heavenly dog,
all those early movies.
He seems today to be this like really uncomfortable person.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> he seem, it's almost like, I,
it like too many people paid attention to him for too long mm-hmm <affirmative>
and it freaked him out. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like, I don't know him. Yeah. Yeah.
But when I see, you know, stories about him or interviews with him, I, or,
you know, any, any weird controversy that happens with him,
mm-hmm <affirmative>, I'm a, almost like, I think the guy just got overwhelmed.
Yeah. And now he is just like, get the away from me, get the away. You know,
like everything is, get the away from me. It seems like. Yeah.
Exactly. You know, but I'm a big fan.
Of his catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog Jr. E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.